really excited that this week we have
Kyle Norton joining us he is the cro of
owner.com and his topic today is walking
through how to build go to market
efficiency specifically in SNB sales
Kyle welcome thanks for joining us thank
you for having me excited to chat with
everybody today so I'm the cro of
owner.com so we're a series B vertical
SAS software business we target mom and
popop restaurants so think of like your
local pizza spot that you order from on
Friday nights that's our ICP I run sales
Partnerships customer onboarding
enablement revops and whatever else
hangs on there and been with the company
about two years so joined shortly after
their series a and I'll talk more about
our growth trajectory as a frame up for
the content we are going to talk about
building efficiency and go to market uh
a little bit about me I've been in sales
for 16 years leadership for 15 tech for
10 this is my second early stage startup
I joined around 3 million AR at owner uh
and previous to this I ran a quarter
billion dollar go to Market unit at
Shopify being in big companies small
companies my first startup was
Enterprise this is SMB I believe in
range I David Epstein from his book
called range so I I like to do a little
bit of everything from a learning and
growth perspective and so what I'm going
to show what I'm going to talk about
today is some insights about how you can
build better efficiency into your go to
market motion the title of the deck is
about SMB this isn't necessarily SMB
oriented only I I've run midm market and
Enterprise teams a lot of this content
is very much applicable there but we're
going to do it through the lens of owner
which is an SMB motion and so there's
three topics to focus on so one is the
importance of staying focused and how to
say no two is we're going to get into
ways to scale that don't include rampid
inefficiency and um and then three we're
going to talk about how to build
operational excellence into your
organization at different stages in the
growth curve you obviously can't manage
with the same rigor when you've got a
small handful of reps and you're the cro
direct as the manager versus later stage
when you've got support teams and other
layers of leadership but we'll talk
about that maturity curve and in terms
of audience so who I'm really speaking
to here is Founders and revenue leaders
from companies that are post product
Market fit so you're winning some
non-friends of founder deals there's
some repeatability but it's not a system
but you've got some patterns you as the
founder the revenue leader Revenue exec
have some patterns that look like
they're repeatable and you're just
endeavoring to to build that
repeatability everything from that
onwards to series BC potentially Beyond
is applicable here okay little bit about
owner because this is going to frame up
the the journey I'm going to try to keep
this as real world and as practical as
possible so we're going to talk about
the the owner
Journey this also helps frame like why
do I feel like I'm qualified to speak on
this topic in my opinion it's because
I've done it really wrong I've made a
bunch of the mistakes that uh I think
we've all made over the last four to six
years in this bull market than zerp era
and now I'm starting to learn I've
learned some of those lessons and I've
started to make some of the right
decisions at owner and so I joined in
June 22 we went from 3 to 6 million in
that sort of half year we went 6 to 16
last year we strung together a bunch of
10% month-over-month growth months so
we're we've just broken through 21
million in ARR in 22 months so more
importantly than that so that's a bit of
the growth story we've done it while
consistently improving productivity
we've reduced Cal pretty significantly
and we've operated with a one or a sub
one burn multiple which is really where
everybody's trying to get you burn
multiple is just for every dollar of
Revenue you acquire how much did that
cost you and if you're burn multiples
two takes you $2 to spend to acquire $1
Revenue not a super efficient business
if you're 0. five very efficient you
could probably spend more money so a
little bit about the journey I inherited
this team with a one manager four reps
and early churn was a massive drag on
efficiency so it was a it was definitely
like a cleanup and a reboot job I I had
to exit two of the four AES within my
first I think 45 days and we really
needed to get our hands on early churn
which is going to be the first topic I
touch on so that 2022 was a just a
foundation building year we had to redo
how we use Salesforce we rep platformed
our sales acceleration tool brought in
some new infrastructure it was
Foundation Building in 2023 we grew that
team from 6 to 10 reps so pretty modest
growth and we also built an SDR function
we we started like a small SDR pilot at
the end of 22 it was giving us good good
Market feedback and then we grew that
function from one and two bdrs to a team
of 10 and 12 and now we've got over 20
bdrs and you're like man that's a lot of
bdrs that must be inefficient it is not
and I will tell you how we've done it
and so we grew 2 and a half X last year
while operating in an L TV CAC of a 4
and a half to one and the growth rate
was actually better in Q4 2023 than it
was in q1 so more efficient growing
faster and I'm going to walk you through
step by step how we got there and then
this year the goal is to find the
outskirts of rep capacity I keep
thinking that we've the capacity of what
a rep an AE can handle and they handle
it really well they keep crushing the
win rates stay pretty consistent so this
year is all about really finding how
much more efficient we can make the AE
team now that we've really nailed the
demand genin Playbook especially on
xdr okay so now let's Zoom back to 22
this is when I started now that you've
got the story arc things were not so
peachy but the product crushed with the
right customers there was a huge group
of people using the platform who got
tremendous value we were shipping
product fast but the culprits for a very
leaky Revenue bucket were were bad or no
targeting on prospects we were closing a
lot of poor fit customers there was a a
lot of misset expectations from sales
and handoff was like sketchy at best and
so this led to fairly unsustainable
levels of churn of early turn So within
the first 90 days we were losing way too
many customers for us to feel like we
wanted to put a bunch of money in the
top of that funnel and so the first
lesson here is about learning to say no
and for us it was about saying no to a
lot of customers culprit number one was
deal quality and we had a growth plan
and I basically paused on it I said
until we get uh churn in a better place
I don't want to add a bunch of reps I
don't want to spend a bunch of money in
marketing let's just dial in the
economics and get to a sustainable place
to feel like the machine was working
before we added gas to it and this is
the exact mistake that I made six years
prior when I was had of sales for my
first startup we got early signs that we
were closing some deals and Reps were
now starting to figure things out so we
fired a whole bunch of reps we had way
less figured out than we thought then we
spent all this time hiring and ramping
reps and we W spending that time on
figuring out um how to win with
repeatable gr economics and so
counterintuitively trying to scale made
us scale slower and and so saying no to
growth is one of the important things
and focusing on customer quality before
you focus on jamming in as much quantity
as you can and a lot of this is it has
to be data oriented and I'll walk you
through that and so to give you a flavor
for it we said no to about 40% of
prospects who we uh 15 days prior would
have gladly close one so fun fact my the
month I took over sales at owner we did
less closed wins than the month before I
arrived and the month after that we did
even less closed wins than that and then
I went into a board meeting the next uh
month and felt really good we had
cleaned up deal quality the customer
quality was way better we started to see
good signs Jason Lins on our board and
who I've read and looked up to for a
long time and he just he basically said
to me sounds great none of it's showing
up in your Revenue number so let me know
when that's when that happens and like
bit of a Terri moment for me as the new
cro but it really reinforced that we had
to find a fast path to making sure that
the improvements we made on efficiency
then showed up in the revenue number
which it did and board meeting number
two was a lot better and so let's get
into the data so you got to figure out
who to say no to and a lot of that is it
has to be data oriented and I partnered
with our bizops team to understand like
what a high quality deal looked like so
what were the what was the digital
footprint of a highquality customer that
then turned into high quality revenue
and the guy's name is Jonathan shankman
he's a whiz we could not do this without
him he figured out what a customer
looked like from their digital profile
and built a machine learning scoring
mechanism called expected gmv and that
indicated based on for us it was like
their review quality web traffic their
thirdparty Marketplace volumes we sell
the restaurants so how many orders they
how many reviews they get each month
over month on a third party indicates
order volume and so we built a tool that
then we could point at our our ecosystem
our Tam of potential prospects and you
can see that highlighted on the right
hand side that red and green chart there
so these are the different bands of
expected egv of expected gross
merchandise volume so you'll see when
the volume is higher the churn is green
it looks really great you would dump
money into an SMB business that has that
profile but smaller customers turned at
a rate that we didn't like and we
basically got rid of all those customers
but it made it so now we understood
really carefully what made a good
customer we understood then the digital
footprint of that those customers so
that we could go find them in demand gen
Marketing in outbound and we shifted
100% of our time and energy to those
higher qual
customers and your sales team might not
be super pumped you're taking away a lot
of ICP or a lot of Tam in quotes and
it's an education exercise and then it's
your job as a revenue leader partnering
with your data team revops or whoever to
fill their funnels with high quality
leads and so this so learning to say no
is is question number one and I just I
generally say take on less segments Less
customer types less reps just do less
and just nail one small niche of a of a
market before you hit the gas to scale
we we always take on too much as Revenue
leaders like I think we're and Founders
too we're all optimists oh like we can
go we're crushing an SMB let's do
midmarket we've got this restaurant this
like takeout restaurant customer let's
do it for dinin restaurants that's a lot
of the time maybe most of the time like
the wrong move staying focused for
longer
is is a great way to nail your economics
so now that we knew what that customer
looked like we want to be able to Target
them so this is big takeaway number two
invest way earlier than you think in
Prospect data and there's a few folks on
the call that I've had individual
conversations about this topic with and
I know how much of an impact it's made
on their business this is one of the
biggest takeaways from today's session
spend the time figuring out spend the
time figuring out how you can equip your
team team with really good Prospect data
because typically like a bdr an outbound
bdr wastes like half their time calling
bad leads you like having to do research
of their own to enrich the leads that
they've been given and we don't uh have
our bdrs basically do any lead research
if they get a lead and it's partially
filled out or it doesn't have a mobile
phone mobile phone number they just punt
it back to the Garden of Eden and we re
send that through our our enrichment
flow because you're basically saying to
your bdr team hey just work two and a
half days a week that's okay if you give
them bad leads and it's that impactful I
did this analysis when I got my first
head of bdr rule at a software company
that that was Enterprise and 40% of
their time was basically wasted I did
the same analysis to Shopify less
because it was more inbound but still
lots of inefficiency if you can get
great Prospect data good things will
happen um essentially if you go from
like us from 40 % data accuracy because
we sell to restaurants super challenging
data market we went from 40% accuracy to
85% accuracy your bdr team overnight
doing nothing else gets twice as
efficient we we our bdr team was
unsustainably inefficient we would not
have scaled it in its original iteration
we figured out the data thing and now
each bdr cranks out like over 80 over
$60,000 in close one AR every single
month so highly efficient and so you
just have to Triple click on this data
strategy there's good providers out
there now you can hire somebody
internally hire somebody on contract AI
makes this way way easier but spend the
time on this and so we had a system
where we took a an entire restaurant
database pulled it into our snowflake
instance ran a bunch of web scrapers and
enrichment tools filled in a bunch of
the data that didn't exist then we would
have there was a confidence score on it
to let us know if we think the data was
accurate or not then we apied into
people data labs to pull a mobile phone
record and we did all of this stuff
which now we use a vendor for called
Data Lane who's incredible and I just
can't stress how important this was you
like it's it don't bother iring more
than one or two bdrs until you figure
out this data piece because just the
economics won't make sense and this is a
picture of how that impacted Connection
rates so the little red purple bar on
that top right chart is connect rates
and that's the connect rate of when we
use this like upgraded enrichment flow
so we originally had a 3% call to
connect rate so a rep making 100 calls
would talk to three prospects really
tough to make that work from from a
scale perspective and now it's hovering
around like 14 to 16% DM call it to DMC
decision maker connect rate you can
definitely scale a team like that data
is your superow here spend the time on
Prospect data it will make everything
Downstream better because if they're
having more customer conversations they
get better faster they put up better
results you build a culture of winning
the economics are good it's I can't
stress it enough okay so we figured out
what a good customer looks like we found
the digital footprint we enriched our
database like crazy to make our bdrs
efficient you can also feed some of that
information to the ad platforms less
directly impactful but possible now
let's fast forward to
2023 and we're we feel like the
economics of this base pilot team work
and we want to scale so how do we scale
without rampant inefficiency sort of
exploding so going back to this topic of
focus less is more we'll talk about the
importance of of single-threaded
ownership this is a slightly contrarian
take but something I believe in and then
we'll talk about infrastructure I've
talked about this uh a little bit
already we made this mistake at my first
startup we had one rep closing a bunch
of deals we thought we figured it out
and then we hired a bunch of reps and it
just wasted our time hiring wasted our
time ramping and we ended up having to
lay off like 25% of that team and
basically burned like six months six
months chasing our taals and I I always
I say frequently to my team to anybody
who will listen to Founders I work with
slow as smooth and smooth as fast take
on less and go deeper with it and you'll
have more success and this is one other
point I'll say on this less is more
because I think is one of the most
common mistakes we make you probably
don't need as many reps as you think the
way that we the way that we build our
growth models the financial model is the
sell for the number of deals per quarter
is always like reps times quota and
you're like that's how many deals come
out of it but that's not really how A
business works or else you just keep
dumping reps into it reps can that math
only works when there's the proper
pipeline to make those reps successful
and so I would say 80% of the time
companies that I work with have a
pipeline problem and not a rep capacity
problem and and in fact if you just do
the calendar test this is something that
Sam blond talks a lot about who was a
early echosign guy so I'm assuming got
it from Jason but just look at your reps
calendars and if they don't have three
or four customer facing meetings on
their calendar every single day of the
week you don't need more reps and I bet
if we all looked at our reps calendars
today it'd be like two one to three you
have a pipeline problem it seems
counterintuitive to have double the
number of bdrs to
AES but the bdrs are half as expensive
and you have a pipeline problem so it's
in my opinion better to just go spend
the money on building more opportunity
volume for your team than expanding rep
head count this is a massively common
mistake you're also better to have less
reps and pay more for them in my opinion
just get better reps take your you had
six
allocated only hire four give them more
Pipeline and hire better reps pay pay a
little bit higher in the market I think
that works out pretty nicely we had this
experience at owner we paid way above
SMB Market I went and got to hire only
top 5% president Club performers from
all over the place because they're like
wow this is 30 grand more than I'm
making today and everybody's hitting
quota this sounds like a sweet deal it's
expensive in quotes but those reps are
way more productive and way more
impactful for a business than hiring
more slightly less qualified
reps all right so topic number two under
scaling smart I think sales I think
single threaded ownership is really
smart for SAS companies you're seeing it
more and more and what I mean by this is
having your sales leader own post sales
and I could do probably like a 20-minute
talk on just this
on just this
issue it's hard for sales leaders to
think beyond the thing that they're
targeted on and paid for and so I've
seen this multiple times in my own
experience when I inherit post sales
teams I'm automatically way more
interested in making sure those post
teams work really those post sales teams
work really well and I'm way more
concerned about the quality of deals
that go from sales to to onboarding or
launch we made this decision in October
2023 and we saw an immediate Improvement
in Deal quality immediate Improvement in
rep responsiveness collaboration it
really starts from the manager down if
you bring the managers into much closer
contact the AE managers and the launch
managers or if you're in a smaller
company all of those people being in one
one channel at the IC level things just
start to resolve themselves because you
build a more human connection and people
inherently want to take care of each
other and this is a great way to to
drive that shared
objective this also makes the customer
problem your sales leaders problem which
means there's no more finger pointing
and I think that's really valuable so
I'm a big believer in single threaded
ownership make your post sales problems
your sales leader problem somehow all
right I'm GNA move on from this topic
all right so now you've got the basics
here you've got the basics of Economics
that makes sense you you've got some
replicability in your bdr motion or your
pipe gen motion now you got to get busy
on
infrastructure and so the two goats in
this picture refer to my director of
revops and my director of of enablement
there's like the engine of our business
Steve who runs revops has been with me
for eight years this is our third stint
together which goes to show like my
Reliance on him and finding budget for
this can be challenging cuz you're like
man this is a big cost to layer on top
of like only four reps but you want to
have these problems figured out before
you hit the gas because those
inefficiencies as you add reps just
stack and stack so I encourage people to
find creative ways to solve this problem
so for us it was about hiring these two
leaders on contract so they were both
from in my network I could do it with a
lot of trust and they started doing
contract work with us like 10 hours a
week then 15 then 20 until the team was
big enough and our AR run rate was big
enough to afford them without it blowing
up CAC and I think this is a smart move
if you can find really high quality
fractional folks in this area it will
make a night and day difference on your
team because you want to have a bunch of
this stuff figured out before you hit
the gas or else it just becomes chaos
and so the only takeaway here is likely
hire and invest in revops and enablement
earlier than you think
buy it off the shelf find contract help
but try to find a way to do this would
be my advice here and these will be two
of the most important hires you make for
sure okay now we're going to go into
pillar number three we're fast
forwarding to late Q2 2023 we've built a
bunch of these foundations we've got
some repeatability we've got some good
Systems and Technology in place so now I
want to talk about how to operate the a
team with slightly more scale with rigor
and as your team gets bigger and as
there's more managers between you and
the team if you're the founder or the
revenue leader things are just going to
start to leak and break down because
it's harder to communicate the feedback
loop isn't as tight so you need
instruments in the business to make sure
that things can move really smoothly so
there's three tools here that I'm going
to talk about the monthly business
review I'm going to advocate for very
tight Performance Management I going to
talk about my love for documentation
these are very boring topics and
Incredibly critical in my opinion and
don't need to be super complicated and
if you're taking advantage of these
three things like you're really getting
the paral principle of the high impact
stuff and then all the fancy operating
rigor Downstream of it is important but
if you can do these three things you'll
be in a pretty good spot this is like a
screenshot of the MBR template if you
guys want this template I'll publish it
I'll just strip it out in our notion and
publish a copy for folks to use each
team has a section the manager there's
like a prompt in each section as you can
see in the right hand section that the
managers of those teams fill out and
then the revops team is in charge of
supplementing of providing the data and
charting for everybody to use so this is
a forcing function that happens every
single month it's within four days of
the month closing depending on when the
month closes to pause and think
structurally about your business it's
really hard to get out of the weeds and
view things from a a wider scope unless
you put this into your calendar and so
you spend a few hours on it thinking
about operations strategy like
inspecting the data really closely and
everything gets more clear in in in my
time and the prep work is key here so
we're a remote company uh and so
asynchronous we strive to be Ayn in a
lot but I actually think this is a
framework that works for all companies
so I'll give you like a little bit of a
framework for prep so one you got to
have you got to have your template you
can use mine you could use a slim down
version depending on on your level of
like size and sophistication but just
like decide as a group what are the most
important questions you want to answer
every single month what's churning in
why is it churning what's the rep
performance and what's the stack rank
look like what are just like the key
questions questions and as you get
bigger and the business is more complex
you will over time add more and more to
this but sitting down and agreeing to
the framework is number one number two
revops populates this data for everybody
we try to have that done two days before
the meeting then the leaders of of each
of those teams first or second lines
will answer the questions that You'
framed out based on that framework and
based on the information repops has
published then everybody has like a 60
for me it's a 90 minute block in the
calendar before the MBR to review the
deck and all the comments so everybody
goes in and reads every other section of
this MBR deck it's a it's a notion page
and then people use comments to ask
questions talk about things that they
see as opportunities and then what we're
talking about in the MBR meeting because
it's a very expensive meeting you have a
bunch of senior leaders everybody has to
get on one call we only pull out the
most important discussion topics do not
read the deck in MBR this is like the
old way of doing it revops build a deck
they spend 60 Minutes flipping through
the deck telling people things you don't
ingest the data as much as as much as
you should to make or to have thoughtful
discussions in my opinion so this pre
prep process where revops populated
managers answer questions everybody
reviews then pull out the discussion
topics that flow will allow you to get
uh a lot more insight um and it also
makes it so that people who are not as
Brave or as extroverted in that
synchronous meeting also have a chance
to provide thoughtful thoughtful impact
thoughtful feedback because they're
doing it
asynchronously and again if you want the
template actually don't email me I'll
just send it out I was going to say
email me and I'll send it but I'll just
do a public notion page and you guys can
grab it if you
want okay so now that we've got our MBR
process let's talk about Performance
Management this is another really
important efficiency driver so this is
part of MBR in MBR every function gets a
stack rank that looks something like
this it could be this is like a simple
version but you could have your win
rates your close one attainment you
could have deal quality as a part of
your AE framework this is like an this
is a an older one it's a simple one but
it's important that you have the Rhythm
that you're looking at a stack rank
consistently
because especially as a small company as
any company the cost of mediocre Talent
is very high especially in this market
because you're giving them valuable
leads salespeople are very expensive and
so the and there's a cultural impact to
letting mediocre performers hang around
so you have to maintain excellence in
order to drive a highly efficient growth
so you need to manage a bottom
performance pretty consistently even if
they're doing okay if people are only
okay but they show up in the bottom of
your stack rank you just got to move
them out because the talent Market is
really good right now for startups
there's a lot of there's less companies
competing for talent so you can probably
go replace that person with somebody
better and for us it's like the cost of
Entry to being a part of the owner team
is Excellence the standard is the
highest performance so I'd encourage
people to like pretty tightly
performance manage it's uncomfortable to
do but you got to find the rigor and
doing it dispassionately in this MBR is
a good way to do
that all right last thing I'm going way
too long so documentation is a pillar
for scale I love documentation it's a
great way to force really clear thinking
for me as a revenue leader and it also
publishes all of this information so
that people can get answers without a
bunch of annoying slacks and questions
and slowing people down great
documentation will let you onboard folks
faster it's really challenging to find
the time to do this but just force
yourself to do it put in like a a
calendar block for an hour or two hours
a week and just make this your
documentation time could be how-to
guides a training framework could be
content to that your reps can give to
the market the best the only thing I'll
mention here is my favorite Hack That I
Used significantly before I had revops
or before I had an enablement team and
folks helping I would do one-on-one
trainings with reps and and so cold
calling so I would go through my cold
calling framework I had really crappy
notes for it flip through a couple
slides and then I would take the
recording of that training I would pull
out my part of the transcript you can
use any transcription tool but pull out
my part of the transcript dump it into
chat GPT and just say this is the
recording from a training exercise turn
it into a how-to document turn it into a
training guide and your your prompt can
be that vague and it will still work
you'll have to do a cleanup but I can I
could produce content at probably like 2
to 4X the speed doing this because it's
easy to talk and just like riff
especially as a salesperson you're used
to just like talking so you can just
riff or I do this on my phone like on
the pelaton I'll just Riff on a topic
drop that transcript into chat GPT have
it clean it up for me and then that
becomes a training training page just
find a way to document virtual
assistance like whatever just document
it'll it'll give you some it'll give you
scaling
superpowers all right those are the
three pillars one more bonus tip for the
revenue leaders if you want to make the
leap to being like mediocre to great you
have to build p&l fluency it's the like
massive missing ingredient for Revenue
leaders today you need to be able to
focus and and think outside of just your
like close one number and Founders need
to hire for it and Coach it and if your
head of rev doesn't have have this today
you got to find a way to give them
exposure to it obviously saster has like
a whack load of really good content on
this this is how I learned in my early
days now there's way more courses out
there that are great Pavilion is the one
that I send my folks to revenue
architecture school is I have a manager
mind in it and he like knows how SAS
works now and he like really understands
how this thing functions so C School
Revenue architecture school Pavilion I
would highly recommend those courses and
if you're having frustrating
conversations with your Revenue leader
and they don't get it send them down
this path they got to be p&l fluent okay
that is all I had for Content we learned
about how to stay know power of focus
some lessons on scaling smart the
importance of data infrastructure single
my opinions on single threaded ownership
and some light Frameworks to operating
with Excellence on that growth curve I
know that was a crap load of content but
Jason before we get hey Jason the others
hey thanks for doing this yeah no
problem owner is doing well it's well
funded but we are as you highlighted
through this we're in an era of more
efficiency so for someone that's even an
outlier how are you thinking are you
thinking any differently
about quotas comp what percent of the
how payment works let me step back maybe
I'm rambling are you thinking any
differently about sales rep compensation
specifically in this environment than in
the past any new insights or learnings
on
compensation yeah so I ratcheted back
our sales comp over my sort of 22 months
here we just wanted to pay for the best
talent we could upfront you're dropping
into a very ambiguous challenging Market
in an early stage startup as you build
more and more structure comp should
match sort of the complexity of that
role we've got scripts and playbooks and
training and people you can learn from
now and the product is so proven and so
we're finding more efficiency by
rightsizing comp and there's a lot of I
haven't changed comp significantly in
the last six or nine months but we're
thinking about how do we tie the rep to
the customer outcome more tying them to
the size of the customer through that
scoring model I talked about egv the
activation rate should probably be a
part of that model yeah I I don't want
to over complicate rep comp that's not
what I me no maybe I think it's always a
a question everyone's fascinated with is
comp right maybe a different a more
strategic way to think about it is and
it goes to your earlier point about and
Sam Bond's point about slightly fewer
reps doing better higher performing
right do you have higher expectations
for attainment for yield for bookings
per rep in the current world do you
owner has a decent ACV but it's still
selling to smbs right so in the old days
we aimed for 3x would be a nice nice
place to skate to in the old days an SMB
rep really didn't make much right
sometimes they still don't and we'd hope
they'd bring in 3x are you driving that
up in any ways or how are you thinking
about that that metric in terms of the E
efficacy or attainment yeah so I I
mentioned in one of the first slides
2024 is really about making the Reps beg
for mercy is the joke that I say
internally so like how far can we take
rep capacity this year and so we've been
pretty modest in adding AES we've
basically doubled the bdr team and so
I'm actually reworking our growth model
as we speak based on new conversion
rates and ENT attainment and really
trying to find the balance point like
seems crazy to have two bdrs for every
AE in an SMB business but if your bdrs
are generating six to 10 to 12 Clos wind
deals cold every single month because we
figured out the data piece it's a
compelling product then it's kind of it
might feel weird but it that makes total
sense yeah no I want to L other question
for what it's worth I don't think it's
unusual I think some of it's Market
dependent but actually some of it's the
skill set of the sales team I've two for
one there was a moment I'm dating myself
I don't know there was a moment where
outbound had its Second Coming okay
maybe I don't know 2016
2015 sales acceleration days yeah and
then actually a lot of folks did the two
to one model because outbound seemed to
work for everybody right outbound and
now you actually have to be quite good
at it yeah for the most part in 2024 but
it wasn't unusual and then I would talk
to different leaders that were great
like you and they some of them had none
some of them it was like you would share
an SDR but two to one may sound crazy
but I think if you're good at if you're
truly good at outbound which is harder
today like you are two to one's a great
place to skate to yeah right don't be
scared if it's if it works don't be
scared of it yeah and so we've more than
doubled per month bookings like
aggregate per month bookings and the
size of the team has basically stayed
constant yeah and that's because rep
productivity has increased through
training and the enablement and then
better better pipeline going to them
we're trying to automate away as much of
the rot sort of manual admin tasks now I
gave a shout out to momentum earlier on
the call that's a tool we're using for
it so yeah and and in my model the per
rep attainment has gone up the the newly
revised model the per rep attainment is
gone up in every single segment because
we're seeing it's possible and and we're
seeing the Reps get better and better
and productivity keep keep growing so
I'm bullish on it I don't know what the
limits of capacity is we have to find
out I thought I knew and the Reps keep
keeping up if it if you really can get
to a two call close or 1.5 call close
and you have a high energy team you can
be surprised what the ceiling is and
helps have a good product and a
compelling problem to solve for sure did
you do this type of outbound at Shopify
did you learn it on the fly at owner how
did you get let's assume let's stipulate
you're good at it okay but a lot of
folks aren't and a lot of Founders and
VP sales they're either there was a
whole thread on LinkedIn this week about
outbound not working from Mark from
Outreach right one of 10,000 threads on
outbound yeah it doesn't work but it but
but I I don't quite agree with that and
you don't agree with that either but you
don't disagree with it how did you get
good at it did you learn it did you
screw it up an owner for the first 12
months what's the learning what's that
process to get good good at outbound we
got good at it at League that was
probably the thing we did so my first
role in Tech was in soft in the software
industry was to run Global bdr for a
Enterprise company and so we I think I
like 5x per brr output because I
eliminated all the like silly activity
we got super targeted on ICP I rebuilt I
love I come from a boiler room so I
think that's why I'm good at it I come
from well that's a good Insight you come
from a boiler room right yeah like my
first job I had a phone a stack of paper
leads and a pitch book on my desk and
emailing was for bad words emailings for
like sissies and so that's how I learned
to sell and so I think that's been with
me and in the super structured nature of
that cold call that that Boiler Room I
people don't like to be scripted they're
like oh I don't need to just read off a
script I'm not some like phone monkey no
scripting is awesome scripting is like
the most powerful thing you could do so
just thinking about it hey Jeff yeah
scripting is I think really critical and
the more tightly you can get people onto
what we call Golden script the better
they'll perform because then you can
smartly AV test what's working what's
not do you think learnable yeah that's
the last question I'll have I could
spend the whole time on questions on
this it's very
in generally speaking there's always
exceptions you started off in a boiler
room right and I think so many Revenue
leaders I know that are good at
outbounds started off door to door in a
boiler room with the Yellow Pages
generally speaking if Founders are
trying to make a bet generally speaking
can you learn it late in
life learn outbound oh that's a good
question if you've grown up and you've
been great at wherever I would say
primarily an inbound model can you learn
it as your first VP sales of serero gig
or is it almost
hopeless I wouldn't say hopeless but I
was saying it's not very likely if you
want to run an out if you want to run an
outbound model and you've got a VPS
sales who is being in 80% inbound models
it it because for them to to for that
person to really grock outbound you have
to do it and I know you've talked a lot
about VPS of sales not wanting to get in
front of customers and they're afraid to
go and Pitch I I'm very strong agreement
on that and so they're not going to pick
up the phone and make Cod calls they're
not going to figure it out themselves so
I I never say never but I just hired a
VPS sales whose first job was door
knocking selling solar at Tesla Solar
City I like those ones I'm a Believer
yeah yeah you'll like
Brad all right let some other questions
in thanks for those Insight yeah yeah
thanks
Jason uh thank you Jason that covered a
lot of the questions actually thank you
so much great great week this week great
content great interaction so thanks
everyone for joining and of course a big
thank you to Kyle for sharing all thanks
for having